Welcome to the June 2019 program of JW Broadcasting.
Earlier this year, 56 students from all over the world
gathered to attend the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
They enjoyed a 20-week course that gifted them
with an in-depth study of the Bible.
The aim of Gilead schooling is to help strengthen the faith
of each of the students so that they in turn
can strengthen the brothers and their respective assignments.
On March 9th of this year, the graduation program
for the 146th class was held at the Watchtower Educational Center
in Patterson, New York.
You'll now enjoy faith-straightening talks
that were delivered during the first part
of the Gilead graduation program.
Over happy to be here today for this graduation
of the 146th class of Gilead.
And we welcome all who are tied in with us
at our Bethel complexes in the United States,
in Canada, in Puerto Rico,
and a number of remote translation offices.
We especially welcome our Gilead students
who are about to graduate from this marvelous school.
And we welcome your dear family members and friends
who are joining you on this very, very special day.
You seem excited and you should be.
We're happy, we're very, very happy for you.
Now throughout your schooling,
you've been asked to draw out principles
from many different Bible accounts, haven't you?
With that in mind, here is the theme
of our introductory comments.
Do you see the point and remember the purpose?
We're going to illustrate what we mean
by looking at Luke chapter five
and verses one through 11.
This is the account where some of Jesus' disciples
chose to leave everything behind and follow him.
Here's the setting.
Some of Jesus' disciples were fishermen
who had followed Jesus for a time,
but then they went back to their fishing business.
Jesus sought to reach their hearts
and move them to follow him fully.
So what did he do?
He used a powerful object lesson
that provided a point and a purpose.
Let's read it at Luke chapter one
or five rather, verse one through verse 11.
And look for the point, first of all,
behind what Jesus did here.
It says on one occasion when the crowd was pressing in on him
and listening to the word of God.
He was standing by the lake of Ganesirat,
and he saw two boats docked at the lakeside,
but the fishermen had got out of them
and were washing off their nets.
Going aboard one of the boats, which was Simon's,
he asked him to pull away a bit from land.
Then he sat down and he began teaching the crowds
from the boat.
When he stopped speaking, he said to Simon,
pull out to wear it as deep
and let down your nets for a catch.
But in reply, Simon said,
instructor, we toiled all night and caught nothing.
But at your word, I will lower the nets.
Well, when they did this,
they caught a great number of fish.
In fact, their nets began ripping apart.
So the emotion to their partners
and the other boat to come into system,
and they came and filled both boats
so that these began to sink.
Seeing this, Simon Peter fell down at the knees
of Jesus saying, to part from me, Lord,
because I'm a sinful man.
For both he and those with whom were overwhelmed
with astonishment at the catch of fish, they had taken.
Man, the same was true of both James and John,
Zebedee's sons, who were partners with Simon.
But Jesus said to Simon, stop being afraid.
From now on, you will be catching men alive.
So they brought the boats back to land
and abandoned everything and followed him.
So what was the point behind this miracle here?
What was this?
Their needs would be cared for
if they trusted in Jesus and followed him.
Of course, to do this, they had to believe Jesus, didn't they?
They had to listen to him.
This was not a trick.
With their own eyes, they could see that catch of fish
and then deduce that their needs would, in fact,
be cared for by Jesus.
That was the point.
Did they get it?
Yes, they did, with what result?
Well, it says they were moved to abandon everything
and follow Jesus.
That is, everything related to the fishing business.
They gave it all up and followed him.
Almost instantly, their faith and trust in Jesus grew,
didn't it?
Now, let's bring the point up to our day.
Soon, you will go to your assignments.
Will you remember the point of your gilly training?
Well, what is the point?
The point has been to build up your faith
and your trust in Jehovah
and thereby strengthen your relationship with him.
In turn, as you draw steadily closer to Jehovah,
you will be ready for whatever work
and whatever responsibility he chooses to place on you.
Jehovah, by means of his sum, will care for you.
He will help you to faithfully fulfill your assignments
and you will add to his glory.
And in all that you do, remember those disciples
who were humble enough to get the point,
abandon everything and follow Jesus.
Now, for the second part of the question
we mentioned at the beginning,
what was the purpose behind what Jesus did?
In other words, Jesus' miracle on that day
carried what deeper meaning for them.
Well, looking back at Luke chapter five,
what happened when the disciples listened to Jesus,
went out to where the water was deep and lowered their nets?
The catch was so great, it says,
that they filled two boats to the point of sinking.
The account doesn't say what the disciples did
with the fish, but they made it to shore.
A man who could walk on water was not going to let them sink.
Now we get to the greater purpose
behind Jesus' miracle.
Do you recall what Jesus said to the disciples
after that catch of fish
and after the disciples became filled with astonishment?
He told them, stop being afraid.
From now on, you will be catching men alive.
You see, by means of that miracle,
Jesus illustrated something greater for them, didn't he?
They would not only be cared for materially,
they got that point, but more importantly,
they would also become very successful fishers of men.
In other words, the first miracle
pointed to an even greater one yet to come.
If their large catch was meant to illustrate
how successful they would be as fishers of men,
then they could look back on that catch years later
and visualize those boats filled with fish
and be reminded that they had much work yet to do
in being fishers of men, catching men alive, so to speak,
helping them to become disciples of Christ.
Your Gilead training will help you to continue supporting
this vital and never-to-be-repeated work
which is the greater purpose behind your training.
So then whatever you're given to do
and wherever your training may take you,
never forget the point and the purpose behind the blessing
that you just experienced in being part of this class.
Trust in Jehovah and in his Son
to help you at all times
and use your Gilead training to support
this important work in the branches
and the territories where you will serve.
Well, we'll say a little bit more about this
at the conclusion of our program today.
Now we're going to enjoy a series of very encouraging talks
that will strengthen your faith,
build up your trust, in fact, for all of us listening in,
and highlight God's wonderful purpose
that we support.
To begin, we're very happy to have with us
a member of the governing body, Brother David's Plain,
who is going to present the talk,
if you look for it, you will find it.
If you look for it, you will find it.
Look for what?
Look for the good in your brothers.
And when you find it,
don't be afraid to acknowledge it.
Now, we all know that we should do that.
But we do have to fight the tendency to,
view others a bit critically at times,
sometimes we question their motives.
Maybe because we're just a little bit jealous.
Now think about that, Brother, in your congregation,
who is just an excellent public speaker.
When he's scheduled to give a talk, the hall is full.
And everybody raves about his talks.
Even your wife.
Yours, not so much.
The show off, he doesn't impress me.
Or what about this?
You're working in a department
with one of those annoying people
who is very efficient.
He's never late.
Never misses a day's work.
He gets a tremendous amount done in a day
and he almost never makes a mistake.
Doesn't impress me either.
Mr. Perfect, he's trying to make the rest of us look bad.
Well, there we go, questioning someone's motives.
Now, can we look for the good in Mr. Perfect?
Can we see, give him a benefit of the doubt?
Maybe his parents trained him
to offer the very best gift he could to Jehovah.
In other words, if he could do more,
he was expected to do more.
Because he wanted his gift to be the very best gift
that he could possibly give.
Now come to think of it, he'd never criticize
as your gift to Jehovah.
He just wants to give his very best gift to Jehovah.
That's the way he approached the pioneer ministry
and that's the way he approaches his Bethel service.
So now what do you do with Mr. Perfect?
Do you tell him to slow down?
You're making the rest of us look bad?
Well, if he did that, he'd be giving a substandard gift
to Jehovah and Jehovah expects and deserves the very best.
So what do you do?
You acknowledge his gift.
You really get a lot done on a day.
I wish I had your stamina.
And what about Mr. Showoff, the outstanding speaker?
Jehovah has given you a wonderful gift.
You use it well.
Now was that hard?
Elders occasionally have to evaluate brothers
for privileges of service.
And while we're not blind to the shortcomings
of our brothers, we try to keep the discussion
mainly positive.
Now sometimes we have to discuss a shortcoming, a negative.
But are we talking about one isolated incident?
Or is it a pattern?
It's true that if we make it a habit
to look on the positive side,
we'll be disappointed sometimes.
But it's better to be disappointed occasionally
than to develop a cynical or resentful attitude
toward our brothers.
Let's consider a scriptural example
where questioning the motives of a brother
could have left a lead to disaster.
It's in 1 Samuel chapter 17.
And a little bit of background,
a little bit of the setting.
Jesse has sent his youngest son, David,
to visit his three oldest brothers in the army.
And Israel is having a face off with the fullistons.
And when he arrives, David hears Goliath,
challenged any man of the house of Israel
to a battle to the death.
There are no volunteers.
Now David is a man of faith.
And he can't believe it.
He says, who is this uncircumcised forlistened
that he should taunt the battle lines of the true God?
Now his oldest brother, Alayab, is listening.
And we pick up the account in verse 28.
So that's first Samuel chapter 17,
and we'll read verse 28.
When his oldest brother, Alayab, heard him speak to the men,
he became very angry with David and said,
why have you come down?
And with whom did you leave those few sheep in the wilderness?
I will know your presumptuousness
and the bad intentions of your heart.
You came down just to see the battle.
Now what did we learn about Alayab's personality
from this verse?
Not much.
You recognize that as a trick question.
We just met the man.
We don't know very much about him.
And we certainly aren't going to pass judgment
on somebody over one isolated incident, are we?
How the question is this?
Was this a one-off for Alayab?
Or was he always like that?
Was this an isolated incident?
Or was it a pattern?
And when analyzing the situation,
ask yourself this, was there ever an occasion
when you got so frustrated with your fleshly brother
that you said something awful,
something that you had to apologize for later?
Well, did that make you a terrible person?
So the question is, is this a one-off?
Is it isolated or is it a pattern?
And these are things that we really need to apply
when it comes to our relations with our brothers and sisters.
Don't write somebody off on the basis of one incident.
But we can see that on this occasion, Alayab was wrong.
He questioned David's motives, and he wasn't nice about it.
But that's not the worst of it.
Suppose that David had listened to Alayab.
Slow down.
You're making the rest of us look bad.
What might have happened?
Suppose David had said, you're right, Alayab.
I am a bit arrogant.
So who do I think I am that I could fight this mighty man of war?
Well, I could have had disastrous consequences for Israel
at least temporarily.
So what's the lesson?
Don't discourage anyone from giving his best to Jehovah,
even if his best is better than your best.
Now let's take another isolated incident
from the life of Alayab and say something positive about the man.
Let's look for the good in Alayab.
1 Samuel 22, 1 Samuel 22, and 1 verse 1.
It says, so David went from there,
escaping to the cave of Adolam.
So David is running away from Saul.
When his brothers and his father's entire house heard of it,
they went down there to him.
His brothers, including Alayab.
So what's the point?
Well, when he was needed, Alayab was there for you.
He could be counter-done.
And later, one of David's sons married one of Alayab's daughters.
Are we to be able to see that again?
David ran away from Saul.
He didn't run away from Goliath, did he?
But he ran away from Saul.
Jehovah's spirit must have indicated
when David should stand and fight,
how when he should run and hide.
Sounds like material for another talk.
Well, it'll help our blood pressure
if we can learn to give a positive spin
to potentially negative situations.
Maybe you've run into this.
You're walking down the hall, following closely behind someone.
He goes through the door and lets the door slam right in your face.
Is he self-centered or just lost in thought?
How do you choose to characterize that incident?
Is the public speaker a show off or on this occasion
is he simply trying a bit too hard to be enthusiastic?
Is the brother being picky or is he trying to be thorough?
Stand off-ish and proud or just shy.
Now, one day, some of you brothers
are going to have positions of responsibility
and you're going to be dealing with people.
And when that happens, remember this.
Many joys are denied those who keep looking for mistakes.
But the one who sees the good in others
will have the feast constantly.
Remember that.
And major, oh, bless you richly.
We love you.
Well, we thank you very, very much
for that encouraging talk for the spleen.
Now, we have a member of the U.S. Branch Committee
with us to deliver the talk.
He causes to become, for the Troy Snyder will do this for us.
Well, as Gilead graduates, you're
being sent out to strengthen and stabilize
Jehovah's Pressure Sheet.
And you're being sent out on the threshold
of the Great Tribulation.
Now, what one scripture will strengthen and stabilize you
so you can help others?
Well, here's a clue.
What truth did Jehovah reveal to fortify the Israelites
right before they were to be delivered from Egypt?
Let's turn our Bibles to Exodus chapter 3.
And let's notice what truth Jehovah revealed.
Remember the account Moses was asking Jehovah,
what can I tell the Israelites so they
would have confidence in your deliverance?
And that's what he was asking Jehovah
to notice what Jehovah said to fortify them, verse 14.
So God said to Moses, I will become what I choose to become.
And he added, this is what you are
to say to the Israelites.
I will become, has sent me to you.
That fortified the Israelites.
See, they understood that Jehovah was saying,
I'll be whatever's necessary to carry out my will.
And according to Appendix A and our Nurewell translation,
it appears that the name also means he causes to become.
Or he causes his creation, you and I,
to become whatever's needed to carry out his will.
And doesn't that harmonize with who Jehovah is?
We know him as the creator, don't we?
He's created us.
He brought about this universe.
He is the God who causes to become.
You see, this truth, this extraordinary truth,
can strengthen and stabilize you.
Because it links you to something that Jehovah is willing
to give you.
Let's look at what that is.
Let's go to Jeremiah chapter 10.
You see, this aspect of Jehovah's name
reveals something about his personality
and something that he's willing to share with you.
Notice what is in verse six, Jeremiah 10.6.
It says, no one is like you, O Jehovah.
You are great.
And your name is great and mighty.
Yes, Jehovah's name is linked to his power.
That's what it reveals about Jehovah.
And Jehovah is willing to use his power to strengthen us.
See, it's Jehovah's power that caused the Red Sea to part.
It's Jehovah's power that made the sun stand still
when Joshua was in battle.
It's Jehovah's power that caused a bird to feed Elijah.
It was Jehovah's power that took a tired prophet
who was exhausted and made him run faster than a racing
chariot.
Isn't that reassuring to know that Jehovah is saying,
I'm going to give you my power?
Because oftentimes we're exhausted.
We may feel like we're unraveling.
But Jehovah saying, I love you so much
that I'm going to give you the power you need
to accomplish my will.
You can see why Satan and Jehovah's enemies
have tried to hide Jehovah's name.
Not just because they've identified him,
but they want to obscure the power that that name has
and what it means to us and how it's strengthened us.
But you know what else it does?
It comforts us.
It can reassure our hearts.
It can allay our fears.
Notice how it did this with one of Jehovah's servants.
Let's go back over to Jeremiah chapter one.
Do you remember Jeremiah?
He was commissioned with a very difficult assignment
representing Jehovah.
And what did Jeremiah express to Jehovah?
He says, I'm about a boy.
It's like he was saying, Jehovah, I'm inexperienced.
I know I have a spiritual foundation.
You've given me, you've trained me,
but I don't know if I can handle this.
I'm afraid.
What did Jehovah say to him to fortify him?
What did Jehovah cause him to become?
Notice verse 18.
Jeremiah chapter one verse 18.
It says, for today, I have made you a fortified city,
an iron pillar and copper walls against all the land
toward the kings of Judah and her princes,
toward her priest and the people of the land.
A fortified city.
So Jehovah says, I will strengthen you.
I'll make you like that iron pillar.
I'll give you that inner strength you need
to carry out your assignment.
But copper walls, what was significant about copper walls?
Well, it might be how Jehovah created copper.
What can copper do?
Copper at very high temperature, will not buckle,
will not warp, will not lose its strength.
See, as if Jehovah is saying, Jeremiah, I will make it
so you can take the heat.
NASA Jehovah is doing for you.
He will make it, make you possible
to handle any situation.
And you notice those are copper walls.
They fortified him.
They surrounded the city.
It's as if mentally, emotionally, spiritually,
and physically, Jehovah would give him whatever was needed
to carry out his assignment.
Now, that fortified Jeremiah.
Could you imagine how Jeremiah may have drawn upon this
as he dealt with challenges?
For example, when he was persecuted,
he was putting stocks.
Now, that's a torture.
That's a form of torture.
Now, could you imagine Jeremiah's prayer?
Did Jehovah cause me to become what I need to become?
To stay faithful to you?
Now, did Jehovah block the pain?
We don't know.
But what we do know is Jeremiah stayed faithful.
This experience did not break his will,
did not break his spirit, nor did it break his integrity.
Or how about the time when Jeremiah
had a golden front of the temple
in front of the priest and the leaders?
And he had to tell them that their precious temple
was gonna be destroyed.
And he had to illustrate it by slamming that clay vessel
on the ground and watching it shatter.
Could you imagine Jeremiah's prayer?
Jehovah, help me become what I need to,
to deliver this message, give me the poise,
give me the courage, help me have that inner strength
to do so.
And Jehovah did.
Jehovah was with Jeremiah time and time again.
Yes, the very name of Jehovah
makes it clear that you will succeed.
You will be able to carry out
his will.
And you've been doing that.
In our inner introductions to the family,
we heard how Jehovah was causing you to become.
For example, one of you talked about how as a young girl,
you and your sister were asked to leave the family home
because of your relationship with Jehovah.
What happened?
Jehovah caused you and others around you,
your brothers and sisters,
to become what was necessary to keep you close to Jehovah.
One of you related how you were on a Theocratic
construction expansion project,
and you were assigned to cut brick in heat
with all your gear on.
You said you maintained your joy.
Why?
Because Jehovah caused you to become.
One of you dear ones related to us,
how you had thought your service to Jehovah
had no value to him.
You lost your joy, but what happened?
Jehovah caused someone to encourage you,
to strengthen you.
And one of you related how Jehovah helped you
serve beyond the capacity of your heart.
Yes, Jehovah has caused all of you
to become what is necessary to carry out his will.
So whenever you feel discouraged,
whenever you feel afraid,
whenever you feel unqualified,
pray to Jehovah.
Ask him to help you become what is necessary
to carry out his will.
Help him to ask him to help you do whatever you need
so you can glorify his name.
Consider, when did Jehovah reveal this truth
to those who are lights?
It was right before they were about to face challenges.
When did Jehovah reveal this truth to us
who was really with the revision of her New World translation?
It really helped bring it into focus,
the power of his name,
really right before we are to be ushered
into Jehovah's New World.
So what trials will you face?
What challenges will you experience?
What will the Great Tribulation bring?
It doesn't matter.
Cause you worship Jehovah.
That's his name, the God who causes to become.
Well, we deeply appreciate that very fine talk,
Brother Snyder.
Now we have Brother Donald Gordon,
who serves as a helper to the publishing committee
with us to deliver the talk, live and sink with Jehovah.
Well, for the last five months,
you dear students have been downloading
a lot of wonderful information about Jehovah.
Now that the class is finished, download is complete,
all synced up.
Well, it may seem that way for the moment.
Of course, Jehovah did not create us
like simple computers,
where we just store away information in our memories.
We were created in his image.
So as we take in knowledge from Jehovah,
we have the ability to absorb it,
to then reflect his image, to think like him,
to feel like him.
We begin to act like him.
So he has given us what we have here in his word,
and he has well created us in our human capacity
to assimilate his word into the beautiful facets
of his image, and then we can truly be in sync with Jehovah.
But how does our being in sync with Jehovah
bring honor to him, enjoy to him?
Well, when we think of the various ones
who are in sync with Jehovah, no doubt
the foremost example is Jesus Christ.
Everything he did, everything he said,
every thought he had was in full harmony with his father.
Now, Jesus said, I cannot do a single thing
of my own initiative.
Sometimes it's like, well, a husband and wife
who have been married a number of years
with just a glance, without a word.
They know what the other is thinking.
They're in sync.
Or perhaps you're thinking of two ice skaters
flowing across the ice as one in unison.
Well, one example of Jehovah and Jesus
working in unison in sync,
is when the woman with a flow of blood was cured
by just touching the fringe of Jesus garment.
One of our favorite miracles.
At recall that scene again,
recorded here at Mark chapter five,
verses 29 and 30,
Mark five, 29.
The woman has made her way through the crowd.
She touches the garment, then verse 29, immediately.
Her flow of blood dried up,
and she sensed in her body that she had been healed
from the grievous sickness.
Immediately Jesus realized in himself
that power had gone out from him,
and he turned around in the crowd and asked,
who touched my outer garments?
Well, that moment, when that woman sensed
that she was cured,
Jehovah and Jesus were working in complete harmony.
Actually, until that moment,
Jesus may have been unaware that Jehovah was watching
this woman with a desire to heal her.
I suppose that Jehovah could have just cured
the woman on his own, as it were,
without Jesus even knowing.
But no, he chose to work through his son,
who he knew was working in harmony with him.
So when Jesus felt the power go out from him,
he naturally wanted to know who was cured,
who did my father see that I did not see?
Because they're working together in harmony.
And then seeing this woman realizing
that actually she was unclean,
where she did not belong.
Jesus was still in complete agreement with his father.
He was in sync with Jehovah's view of this woman,
a very happy to have been involved in the cure of her,
leaving us, of course,
with one of our favorite accounts of Jesus' life.
Well, what's a lesson for us?
Whether we are at our work assignments,
in our congregations out in the ministry,
we want to be in sync with how Jehovah views other people.
We often tend to view others through our own eyes.
This can be clouded by our own human concerns
and viewpoints, perhaps tainted by some misunderstandings
or misconceptions, wrong information,
perhaps our need to be a little more forgiving.
You see, if any of those feelings is taint in our judgment
or relationship, even in a small way,
to that degree, we are out of sync with Jehovah.
Jesus and Jehovah were focused on this woman's faith.
Your faith has made you well, go in peace.
Well, let us, in every situation,
strive to see others as Jehovah sees them.
This brings honor to Jehovah and allows him to use us
in harmony with his will.
Now, there was another situation where being in sync
with his father took more time and effort.
When Jesus chose his 12 apostles,
he of course wanted to be in harmony with his father.
But this did not happen with just a glance.
Of course, Jesus had a very deep intimate knowledge of Jehovah
and these men that he was considering, he knew them well.
Still, this decision took hours of prayer
to arrive at the 12 apostles selected.
I so it will be in performing your work,
making decisions at your assignments.
You cannot simply rely on your knowledge of the scriptures
as deep as it may be.
To make decisions we must implore Jehovah with our prayers,
maybe many prayers and our meditations.
Don't hold back from beceaching Jehovah
as you struggle for a decision,
but certainly always rely, of course,
on his word, the Bible, knowledge from his word,
prayers to our father and then meditation on his will.
Of course, you've learned in your class
that the knowledge of Jehovah is such a multi-faceted gem.
There is an intriguing scripture that spreads,
sheds further light on this thought.
Here at Ephesians chapter three, verse 19.
Ephesians three, verse 19.
It says, and to know the love of the Christ,
which surpasses knowledge,
well now how can knowing something be more than the knowledge?
Well, you've learned here that the Greek term rendered to know
means to know practically through experience.
Now, of course, the Gospels accounts teach us much
about Christ's love.
We come to know that his patience, his humility,
his willingness to forgive, et cetera.
And we read and we study that with the light.
But to really know it is like, well, a skill
that we might learn only after we actually do it.
For example, a doctor goes to school to learn to be a doctor.
There's lots of learning years of study involved.
But then when the studies are complete,
they begin their internship.
They begin making the rounds at the hospital.
They begin now taking part of this education,
what they learned from the books,
and applying it to real life situations.
The knowledge learned from this experience surpasses
the knowledge learned in the books.
So we have studied the Christ.
We do the book work.
We have learned.
Now, you Gilead students have had the amazing opportunity
these last five months to read and study about his patience,
his love, his forgiveness, humility, compassion, et cetera.
You cherish that knowledge.
You're in sync.
Not quite yet.
You see, now we must do the internship.
Now we must take that knowledge and make the rounds
as it were.
We go around the congregation.
We interact with our workmates.
We go out in the field ministry.
You deal with a sticky difficult situation
and put into practice.
What you've learned from the Christ.
This is the way to get the full impact.
You've read and studied what he was thinking,
but now you know how he was feeling,
how it feels to unselfishly give of oneself
in behalf of others.
How does it really feel to act with humility as Jesus did?
Or you come to know how it really feels
to forgive from the heart as Jesus did.
In this way, by experience,
you come to know the love of the Christ
and that surpasses the knowledge.
Now, not only is what you know about God,
treasure in your heart in sync,
but now your actions, your life, who you are,
is in sync with Jehovah.
Indeed, like King David,
who expressed in the 139 Psalm,
you dear students have found in God's word
the precious thoughts of Jehovah.
Continue to search them out,
bring them to mind, cherish them, and do them.
And then you will be living your life
in sync with Jehovah.
Well, we are very grateful for that heart-felt talk,
Brother Gordon.
Now we go to another one of our gillied instructors
for the next talk.
It's Brother Mark Numer,
and he will speak on the subject, offer your bow.
At the age of 20, he was a natural leader,
commanding a thousand men.
His tribe was legendary for their military prowess.
He was known as a skilled archer.
His bone never turned back from its target.
He was the first born, favored prince, courageous, loyal,
loved by the people.
Everything was lining up perfectly for Jonathan
to become Israel's next king.
Everything except he was not Jehovah's choice.
So how would he react when he saw David
receive Jehovah's special favor?
How would he react when David is now transferred
permanently to the king's house?
Would he be filled with envy, jealousy?
Would he feel threatened?
Would he work to assassinate David's character?
After all, David was 30 years younger than Jonathan
and came from a rather insignificant family.
So what would Jonathan do?
This is what he did.
He did something remarkable
and is founded first Samuel chapter 18 and verse three and four.
And this is what we want you to think about.
What he did do in the application
because this is so valuable for you.
First Samuel chapter 18 and verse three and four.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant
because he loved him as himself.
Now note verse four, Jonathan took off the sleeveless coat
that he wore.
He gave it to David along with his gear,
his sword, his bow and his belt.
Now this dramatic act of deep symbolism
indicated that Jonathan would submit his will
to Jehovah's will.
He was going to humbly support David.
But think about it by offering his bow to David.
Jonathan was giving up a major part of his identity.
The Bible describes Jonathan as a manly warrior
swifter than an eagle, mightier than a lion.
He was winning battles against the Philistines
before David was even born.
But was he worried about losing the respect of others?
Did he say, what will people think of me?
Will I lose my credibility if I support
this younger David?
No.
Nor did he feel that Jehovah rejected him
because of the special favor upon David.
Jonathan's bow, his other war equipment,
wore his trademark and that symbolized his military power.
But the bow did not make the man.
Love made the man.
Love for Jehovah.
Love for Jehovah's choices.
This is what we're highlighting.
And once Jonathan offered his bow, he never retracted it.
Even when he knew that David would be the next king,
he respected the divine arrangement.
And repeatedly, Jonathan would support David.
He would reassure David, you are Jehovah's choice.
Jonathan was not insecure.
He was not afraid to appear insignificant.
He was not threatened to see David rise.
Nor did he view David as a rival to be eliminated.
Now in human terms, this cost Jonathan.
He lost the prospect of being king.
He lost his close relationship with his father.
He might have lost some stature in the eyes of men.
But in spiritual terms, he gained his unselfish devotion to David,
received honorable mentioning God's word,
which never would have happened
had he resisted Jehovah's choice.
We wouldn't even be talking about this right now
if he took a fleshly view of Jehovah's divine arrangement.
So this is your first big lesson.
Don't measure your worth by your job title.
It's your love of Jehovah.
That's what makes you so valuable.
A spiritual person is the most powerful tool in the hands of God.
And this is what you are.
So how can you imitate Jonathan?
Offer your bow.
By showing your support of Jehovah's organizational decisions,
even if it means giving up something you love or want to cling to.
For example, some of you have been given new country assignments
and yet you might not have planned on moving to another country.
You were content where you were.
You were happy doing what you were doing.
Thank you.
Thank you for your unselfish support of the decisions made
to advance Kingdom interest globally.
Thank you.
Or perhaps you've been trained in some capacity,
something you really enjoy.
And yet now someone else is assigned to do that job.
Will you, like Jonathan, put your heart into supporting
and reassuring the new person that took your job?
And how about you as a sister?
What about if a new sister comes and gets the job assignment you love?
You cherish, you wake up every day.
I love my job.
And now you're asked to train her.
What will you do?
Will you offer your bow?
Or the sister gets the office that you dreamed of.
The one with the window.
There it is.
You had your eyes set on it.
You might have seniority.
She could be younger than you.
But perhaps oversight took other factors into consideration
that you are not aware of.
What will you do?
What will all of you do in these situations?
Will you accept the fact that supporting decisions
by the organization at times involves sacrifices on your part?
Well, let your love for Jehovah
mean more than you're cherished work assignment.
And this is a very, very big lesson,
lesson number one, and very important for you to think about.
Offering your bow in this way.
You've already shown this spirit.
We're just reinforcing something that you need to hear
prior to your departure.
Now, I want you to think about this for a moment.
Compared Jonathan's good example
with that of his brother, Ishbo Sheth.
When Saul died,
2 Samuel 2 and verse 8 says,
His general abner made Ishbo Sheth king.
No loyalty to Jehovah's choice,
and Ishbo Sheth agreed, I want that.
Ishbo Sheth craved position,
which led to a civil war,
which led to problems.
Now, instead of Ishbo Sheth offering his bow
and his war equipment to David,
2 Samuel 2 describes how he provoked war with David,
which resulted in bloodshed and the death of 380 men in Israel.
Ishbo Sheth's heart, it wasn't with David,
that was Jehovah's choice.
He was unlike his brother Jonathan.
But now imagine if Jonathan was still alive
when Saul died.
And Abner now comes to Jonathan and say,
Jonathan, I want you to be king.
You'd make a great king.
Would Jonathan have agreed?
Would he have then said,
Give me my bow back.
Retract it, take it back,
and tell David,
No, I feigned loyalty to you.
This is what I really wanted.
I want to be king.
No.
Jonathan wouldn't have done that.
Why?
Because he gave not just his bow to David.
He gave not just his war equipment to David.
No, he gave his very heart to Jehovah's choice.
And that's the beautiful thing about him,
the difference between Jonathan,
who sees an opportunity to support Jehovah's cause.
And Ishbo Sheth, who never thought for a moment
about how Jehovah God was directing David, is striking.
And the results speak for themselves.
Jonathan was loved and honored.
Ishbo Sheth was hated and murdered.
When Jonathan died,
David was so deeply grieved by the loss of his dear friend
that he was moved to do something.
And what he did is recorded at Second Samuel, chapter 1,
and verse 17 and 18.
I'd like to read this to you.
Second Samuel, chapter 1, 17 and 18.
And David chanted this dirge,
or this song over Saul and his son, Jonathan,
and said that the people of Judah
should be taught the dirge, the song called the bow.
The bow.
Could David have had in mind the bow
that Jonathan gave him at the beginning of their friendship?
Jonathan supported the nation without demanding
that he receive high rank or position.
Jonathan was so loyal.
It was a powerful lesson that David never forgot
and neither did he want the sons of Judah to forget
because he instructed they all learn this song by heart.
Offering your bow is a powerful word picture.
When you continue to work in the background,
work quietly in the background,
in loyal support of Jehovah's choices.
Despite the cost, despite the human imperfections,
despite the disappointments,
despite the perceived injustices,
don't worry about all of that.
That's simply the ebb and flow of life.
Pick yourself up, keep on moving grow mighty,
become a living example to the brotherhood in loyalty.
That's what you've been trained to do.
And you will receive Jehovah's attention and favor
just as Jonathan did.
Jehovah did not merely dismiss Jonathan
as a would-have-been king.
No.
Rather, he took note of Jonathan's loyal support
and had his wonderful example embedded etched
into his inspired word.
So as you go to your assignment,
what is your bow?
Everyone has one.
Is it your cherished work assignment?
Is it that privilege that you have been given
that few others enjoy?
Is it the responsibility
that requires many to consult you for direction?
Well, think about this.
The time will come
when someone is put in a leading role.
And you will be asked to support that person,
work under that person, help that person.
And when that time comes, ask yourself,
what will I do?
And not just you brothers.
You sisters too.
I mean, you wives.
Will you support?
Will the wife support as well?
Single sisters.
Will you support the arrangement?
That's the point.
Ask yourself, will I offer my bow?
Like Jonathan, will I offer it freely?
Well, I offer it generously to anyone,
chosen for a role of responsibility
within God's organization.
And be assured Jehovah,
in turn, will offer you,
offer you an unimaginable treasure.
And that treasure is his favor and approval.
Jehovah's favor and approval.
What is better than that?
Now and life in the New World.
And when you get to the New World,
be sure to look for the one
that inspired you to offer your bow.
Well, we thank you, brother Namar,
very much for that encouraging talk.
In fact, we've enjoyed a series of wonderful talks this morning, haven't we?
What an encouraging program thus far.
And in the upcoming weeks,
look for parts two and three
of the graduation program.
They'll be found under latest videos
or under the video on demand segment
of JW Broadcasting.
We'll conclude this month's program
by traveling to the tropical island of Kashi
in Micronesia.
Located in the Pacific Ocean,
Kashi is filled with dense jungle,
mangroves, picturesque beaches,
and is surrounded by beautiful coral.
Many on the island work in the tourism,
fishing, or agricultural industries.
Although the official language of Kashi is English,
there's a remote translation office here.
One brother and four sisters assist
with translating literature into Kashi-in.
There's one congregation on Kashi,
with two field missionaries,
two special pioneers,
and two regular pioneers,
and a total of about 15 publishers.
They preach to the over 6,000 inhabitants of the island,
and their hard work is bearing fruit,
for example.
In 2018, there were 82 in attendance
at the Memorial Celebration,
and a peak of 65 attended the Regional Convention.
And in 2018,
the congregation reported some 60 Bible studies.
The brothers and sisters in Kashi-in
send you their warm love and greetings,
and by means of this program,
we all send our love and encouragement back to them.
This is JW Broadcasting
from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.